In this video we'll be talking about a summary of all the concepts.
Just go over everything all one so that you are even more familiar with them.
And in the next video we'll be building a small application which we'll be putting all of these concepts
together to even further solidify the lessons learned.
First let's talk about a class.
A class is the building block an object or in a programming.
And we can create one with the reserved keyword class like we have one right here.
So we have the reserve keyword class.
And then we have the name of the class which can be anything we choose it to be a class is basically
a blueprint which we use in order to create objects.
And from one blueprint we can create as many objects as we want.
So we have one class and then we can as many objects from that as we want to take a look at here.
I'm just gonna copy and paste this real quick.
I won't be changing any of the names just want to quickly up the name or change the names so that they
can work.
And so here we have the same class but we have a different object right.
So we instantiate our class in both ways the same class but out of that class instantiation a different
object comes out.
So we have the variable on the left side with the type of the class that we are instantiating.
And then on the right side we have the instantiation of the class which then gives us an object and
puts it into this variable.
So this is a different object and a different object but they both came from the same class.
OK.
So the way we make new objects is that through a process of instantiating a class and as you saw here
we instantiate a class by using the reserved keyword new.
So you use the new reserve keyword and that's how you instantiate a class which then takes that and
puts a new object into the variable on the left side.
So that's how that process happens.
Now let's talk about abstract classes abstract classes or classes which cannot be instantiated the way
we are instantiating this concrete retail salesperson class or concrete car salesman class.
However here we have our salesmen abstract class.
And so as I was saying an abstract class is basically a base class.
So in other words they are allowing us to unify functionality in one class.
We then inherit from the abstract class to gain the base functionality in abstract classes we can have
abstract members such as abstract properties or methods which need to be overridden in classes inheriting
from them by using the override reserved keyword.
They can also have virtual members which means they already have a definition but they can also be overridden
using the override reserved keyword.
So as mentioned here I have some abstract members and those abstract members get overridden in the retail
salesperson for example.
So we'll write them using the override reserved keyword and we have their own specific definitions.
Now I don't have any virtual members but from the previous examples you remember how a virtual member
on the abstract class was able to have its own definition but then we had a choice to whether override
that or leave it the way it was as it was on the base class.
So it's our choice but it gives us an opportunity to be able to override that.
So the class inheriting from another class is called a Charter class or a subclass and a class being
inherited from.
It's called a parent class or base class.
So this case this is our parent or base class and our retail salesperson and car salesmen are child
classes or subclasses.
So when we are in the child class we can refer to the base class by using the reserved keyword base
which as we have it here.
And we're referring to the base classes constructor using the base rows of keyword.
Also in the chat class we can refer to itself by using the reserved keyword this.
So for example if I had another parameter coming in such as an h as we've seen that before private and
age and I'm going to just say this and the constructor say age you can see we have access to it.
And what this says is that this meaning car salesman's age is equal to the age.
This coming down from the parameters.
OK.
So that's what this reserve keyword allows us to do it just allows us to refer it to the class that
we are currently in.
So I'll take that out and we can move on.
So interfaces on the other hand in C sharp contain no declarations whatsoever.
We already have one called cell developing.
So these have no declarations at all and they can only have methods and properties in this case only
have a method which are completely abstract and need to be implemented in the child classes.
So our web developer actually has a self developing interface that it's implementing and so it needs
to have a developed method with the same signature that we see on self developing interface.
So it's a void develop and if we come here void develop public by default and it has its own definition.
So we need to define that we need to basically implement that class or property that we get from an
interface in our child class that is how interfaces work.
They don't have any definition of their own.
We have to give it a definition when we inherit from them or when we implement them.
So one quick conventional so we inherit from classes but we implement an interface the way it's done
is exactly the same we use a colon but we just use different words.
And that's just a convention.
Quick convention to know.
So now the difference between abstract classes and interfaces abstract classes are for unifying relevant
group of classes and interfaces are there to unify unrelated group of classes.
They can inherit from one class but you can implement many interfaces and CCAR does not allow you to
inherit from multiple classes and interfaces were introduced to get around that problem.
And as you can see we have a developer a base class classes an abstract class and we have a self developing
interface.
Now check it up.
Imagine if I said that my web developer can also have salesmanship abilities right.
If I take that out and I say salesman this would not work why.
Because it says cannot have multiple base classes C sharp is forbidding us to have multiple inheritance
when it comes to classes.
But if we put back the interface you can have one base class and it can have many interfaces.
We just happen to have only one.
But if we wanted it to have more we would just have a comma and then put the next interface in line.
So that's one of the key things to remember in C sharp object our programming is that we do not have
multiple inheritance.
Let's not talk about the four pillars of object or a programming which are inheritance polymorphism
which has two types encapsulation and abstraction.
Inheritance is done through using a colon symbol.
So just the way we have a right here.
So we use the colon symbol in order to perform inheritance.
You can have the class on the left of the colon right here which is trying to inherit from the class
that is located on the right of the colon.
So you know does the base class and is also implementing this interface or anything that's on the right
it's inheriting or implementing what's on the left which is usually going to be not usually but always
going to be one class that is going to either inherited from one class or inherit from one class and
many interfaces are just one interface or many interfaces so those are the possibilities that we have.
So Inheritance allows you to gain access to the attributes and behaviour of an existing class.
So in our class car salesman we needed the base functionality from the salesman based class.
We used inheritance to gain access to those attributes and behaviour.
So car salesmen and retail salesperson needed some base functionality and we inherited that by using
a call in from the salesmen base class abstract class such as the property towards calculating that
the constructor the way it's ordering the sell concrete method.
We got the concrete method sell from that.
So there's a few things that we inherited down from an existing class.
That's what Inheritance allows us to do.
Paul morph ism is a technique in which the same component can have different behaviours.
We have dynamic polymorphism and static polymorphism and dynamic polymorphism where the same method
signature on two child classes which inherit from the same base class.
So in this case we have the Engage which is only on the base class right.
And it has the same signature but in car salesmen and retail salesperson you can see.
So if we go back once again is the engage right is the same thing but it has different behaviour on
car salesmen right here.
And you know in this case it says hello but I could just set as simply I could have just said hi on
this one and retail salesperson says hello.
So it's a different behaviour.
We just happened to have them the same but it doesn't have to be the same.
We can completely differentiate the behaviour though it is basically the same method but it's been defined
differently in two child classes.
So that's our dynamic polymorphism.
So once again in dynamic polymorphism we have the same method signature on two child classes which inherit
from the same base class.
But those methods have different behaviours and we define them separately just the way you saw it a
few seconds ago.
So the method is the component in this scenario which can act differently depending on how many chart
classes inherit that same method and define it on their own.
Dynamic polymorphism also happens on a class level.
So we need abstract classes and interfaces in order to perform that as you've already seen.
So it happens on a class level meaning that this class says I will be you know in this case engage or
any one of the methods as abstract that says that hey I am here on this class but I will behave differently
on child classes.
So that's why we need an abstract class or we need an interface just the way you've seen before.
Develop also has different behavior has the same signature on the parent.
But on the child it has a different definition so it acts differently on other classes.
Static polymorphism on the other hand allows us to let the same method in the same class have different
behavior.
So you have a method code let's say in our developer right here.
Right.
We have code method but it behaves differently.
And what makes it behave differently is the fact that it takes in different parameters so that static
polymorphism either different amount of parameters different type of parameters or parameters which
are ordered differently from one another.
In this case we have different amounts.
This one has none.
This one has one.
This one is two but we could have also had same amount different types so could have just been you know
same amount but different types of this one isn't.
This would have worked as well or they're ordered differently meaning that you know you can have two
parameters right.
And same types one is int 1 a string.
Let's say bring it back but they're ordered definitely.
Though this is not recommended because it just makes your code a lot more confusing.
So you just want to keep it either differentiated between the amount of parameters or types of parameters.
It's much more intuitive that way now encapsulation is the process of hiding our implementation.
I'll go back to the salesman and reuse axis specifies in order to do so.
We have public private protected public as you've already found out allows us to share the attributes
or behavior of the class with any other class within or outside of the class.
Private keeps the class members only at only accessible from within the class so are fields right here
protected on the other hand says that the members that are denoted as protected can be access only from
the classes that inherit from the class that they're in.
So in this case salesmen will give access only to retail salesperson and car salesman which is what
we have right here.
Anything else won't have access to these methods because they're protected.
Lastly abstraction happens as a result of encapsulation encapsulation in and of itself is a blind process.
So we go back to salesmen.
It's just a blind process of hiding certain things and showing others.
And that's all it is.
However the reason as to why you're hiding or showing things is abstraction you hide things because
you want to only show things to the end user that are relevant to them and you want to abstract away
the implementation details such as these guys that the user doesn't much care about in general and it
makes the usability of your class much more intuitive and less error prone when it's used by others.
So that is all.
I hope this was a good refresher for you in the next video we'll be building a small application which
is going to put all these concepts together in a code so that you can see how they all fit together.